Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
Previously on House of David...
I won this battle.
You will anoint me again.
This I cannot do.
David loves me. There is no good reason
why he would have David marry you.
Your sister is right.
She is the better choice.
Get out of Israel.
I will find you and I will kill you.
Eshbaal will wed Dinah.
The daughter of Yahir of Dan.
We need no ceremony.
Together we can have a second chance.
The one Samuel anoints. he must be slain
along with everyone in his household.
You and your child
defile the name of Jesse.
Your mother. born an enemy of our people.
I took her in haste. Married unlawfully.
You took my signet ring. Changed my law!
You will not accompany me
and our family to the Tabernacle.
Adriel brings important news.
I saw Samuel come to Bethlehem.
I know who he anointed.
How big is it. Mother?
The Tabernacle.
Bigger than
anything you ever seen.
Just wait.
It is quite a sight. David.
The holiest place in the land
on the holiest day of the year.
Will God be watching us today?
God watches us every day.
Especially you. Nathaneel.
-That's why he laughs so much.
-Eliab.
Is that it?
Yes.
The Tabernacle.
Where the spirit of God dwells.
David?
Everyone is getting ready to leave.
You all right?
Yes.
I'm listening
for my mother's voice in the wind.
I wanted to tell her.
Tell her what?
I'm going to the Tabernacle.
You didn't go together as a child?
She was never allowed.
Nor was I.
Come. We will return home.
No.
No. not because of me. You go.
No. None of us are allowed ever again.
This is the decision of the elders.
-Hypocrites.
-Eliab.
-This is because of David.
-Eliab. silence.
Now you're an honored guest.
Hmm? You're champion of the king.
Come on.
Let's go.
Is all well. my king?
All is not well.
We have a traitor in our midst.
Curse Samuel.
This blood is on his head.
The anointed one?
Well. rest assured.
this threat will be removed.
First his family.
then the anointed himself.
Joab will handle it.
I-I was thinking I would.
uh. enlist someone else for this.
No.
Joab. he's the one I trust.
Of course.
The deed will be done
before we reach the Tabernacle.
Father would be proud
seeing you attend Tabernacle.
He would be proud of both of us.
Uh. actually. I'm not going with you.
I just heard I'm being sent
on a mission with Joab.
Now?
Why?
Uh. he would not tell me.
Must be important.
I wanted us to share this.
Uh. perhaps it was something
I was never meant to see.
You have to clean this every day.
You promise?
Sara.
Mychal. Get some rest.
My family owes you a great debt.
It is my pleasure to serve.
You do more than serve.
Because of you. my brother lives.
Well. I am happy my skills were of use.
I know Jonathan well.
His feelings for you.
they go deeper than gratitude.
Men are often confused when I treat them.
It's a sense of affection
and reverence for the healer.
Hmm.
If you were to ask me...
feelings seem to run both ways.
We only just met.
So... So come with us.
To the Tabernacle?
If you leave.
you'll never know what could be.
So. you'll come?
-Yes?
-Fine.
How is my boy?
How is Samson?
Brother.
Are you joining us?
Your sister seems to think
you are still ill.
I've never felt worse.
Well. then I suppose I am duty bound.
Let's get you a horse.
You're welcome. Brother.
It's a long journey.
Doesn't mean we have to talk.
It's fine with me.
Perhaps you prefer to ride
in the carriage?
You are the wife of a prince now.
So quick to marry.
yet you know so little about me.
Need help climbing up. my prince?
Too late to back out now.
Why is Mother not coming?
Father.
She has always been with us
at the Tabernacle.
And this year. she will not be.
Uriah. I am to lead. but I don't know
which way we are supposed to be going.
-You see that scout ahead of the column?
-Yes.
Keep him in sight
and just follow his horse.
Thank you.
Our new commander is asking
for directions. huh?
Should we be worried?
Remind me. Oaz.
how many giants have you killed?
Will you at least tell me
where we are going?
Is it Kiriath-jearim?
No. we're headed south.
Judah?
Where exactly? What village?
-And why?
-Eliab.
You will know the truth
when the time is right.
-Mmm. do you want some?
-I don't like it.
David.
My king.
Thank you for this great honor.
It is the least I could do
for one so loyal.
I envy you.
experiencing all this for the first time.
The Day of Atonement
is a time for repentance
for the things that distance us from God
and for the consequences
our choices have caused.
It is a ceremony that marks both
the beginning and the end of many things.
You will see.
Our commander's a singer. huh?
Don't mind them.
Earning their trust takes time.
You know. I've been a shepherd
for many years leading my father's flocks.
and they have always followed me
with great loyalty.
Well. men are not sheep.
To be a soldier is to face pain
and hardship
and the possibility of death every day.
So a leader must provide them
with a purpose greater than themselves.
Mmm.
You'll get there. David.
One way or another.
We have servants to tend the horses.
You think she would have figured that out
by now. but you know Mychal.
I do.
I wanted to tell you.
I convinced my father
to grant your family
a hundred head of sheep.
And your father.
he will be restored in Judah.
welcome to worship with the others.
-All past sins wiped clean...
-Hmm.
...so...
...so he could join us next year.
That is my gift to you.
Thank you.
But my love cannot be bought. Mirab.
Perhaps it can be earned?
It already was.
Look. David.
I know I am not the one you chose.
but I will make this the right choice.
Do you know what you have done
to your sister?
What I have done?
David. I have never been chosen. ever.
I am overlooked.
I'm ignored.
I think you know what that feels like.
To be forgotten by your family.
to not have a path.
But now look at you.
You slayed that giant.
and it upset everything.
You found your path.
and I would like to find mine.
Because I deserve to have a future
as much as Mychal.
And the truth is. you and I. we...
we are what this kingdom needs.
And that is why my father made his choice.
and he will not change his mind.
Now. you don't have to like it.
and. really. you don't have to love me.
but the eyes of the nation are on us.
So. please just don't embarrass me.
Help!
Over there!
What happened to you?
Armed men. Philistines.
Sacking village after village.
Now. mine.
Geba.
David.
take your brother and a detachment of men.
We'll call for reinforcements.
-As you wish.
-Take him.
Lead us.
Abi. let's go.
Ready your weapons!
The Philistines are attacking!
Joab. why are we here?
Hey.
No more secrets.
These are my neighbors.
The man Samuel anointed. he lives here.
No.
That cannot be true.
Yet it is.
And what are we to do?
Remove the threat
along with his bloodline.
There can be no survivors.
Joab...
These are good people.
We cannot.
I will not.
Would you rather it be your family?
Eliab. what are you doing here?
Your father said
you had returned to Gibeah.
Tobiah. son of Japheth.
you've been declared a traitor.
What? No. Joab.
-No. I don't understand.
-Joab.
Eliab. tell him. You know me.
Your death is necessary
to preserve the future...
-Joab.
-...of our rightful king...
-Merciful God. please.
-...the true anointed one.
Eliab. tell him.
-Abba!
-Go! Get away. Son.
Run!
I'll go after the boy.
You finish the rest.
Be smart. cousin.
No. please. Tobiah.
-Tobiah?
-Where's abba?
How could you do this?
God is furious.
This is our leader?
I don't know if I want...
Over here!
-Here. there's some survivors!
-I told you he wasn't ready.
God. help me.
Oaz...
That is a dozen men
we've lost. David.
A dozen men.
Why did you rush in?
Uriah. take Oaz. Tend to the wounded. Now.
I told you he's not a leader.
Enough.
The Philistines were
attacking the villagers.
I did what I-I felt I-I must do.
You know what they would have done.
We had the advantage.
But you led with emotion
and you gave up our position.
My prince.
there's something you should see.
You just got men killed
who did not need to die.
Every dead Philistine had one.
There were two wagons loaded with them.
More that escaped.
Charcoal.
Burned wood?
What do they want with burned wood. huh?
Why risk life and limb for it?
David. come sit by the fire. Come.
I got those men killed.
It was a battle.
They knew the cost.
They followed me.
They trusted me.
You know...
I grew up watching my father send
men to their death.
so...
I know what war does.
Not just to the ones who fight.
but to those left behind.
Grief cannot be avoided. David.
But you don't have to do it alone.
Hey.
Well?
This still feels heavy.
You promised me iron swords
as refined as Goliath's.
I need time. my king. And more materials.
I've given you all you required
at the cost of many men.
and yet you fail to live up to
your promises. huh?
Perhaps you are not as skilled
as your master.
There is no one as skilled as my master.
-Then where is he?
-No one knows. my king.
He's believed to be dead.
Goliath's sword was his last.
But I am his best apprentice.
Please. I will prove my worth.
And soon. you will lead a vast army
wielding the greatest weapons
known to man.
Not for men.
For gods and kings.
Can you do that or not?
-Yes. Yes. my lord.
-Mm-hmm.
I will show you.
Good.
Get back to work.
David! David! David!
Long ago. Adonai revealed the Tabernacle
to Moses from Mount Sinai
and told him to build one
just like it on Earth.
It is like...
a shadow of the heavenly realm.
Right here for us.
Yeah.
David! David! David!
My people!
I present to you...
the giant-slayer!
And his princess. Mirab.
Pretend. David.
If not for them. for me.
-David! David! David!
-Please.
Where were you?
What was this mission?
We will not speak of it.
Not here.
Not ever.
If you have come
to put hands on Samuel.
you will first have to go through
all the priests of the Tabernacle
in front of all the people of Israel.
I assure you.
we have no need or wish to harm the Seer.
In fact. we come offering him
a relief from his own sins.
What do you think you're doing?
Isn't it obvious?
I thought we had an understanding.
You mean how you'd rather ride a horse
than have my child?
Than have any man's child.
So much pain and suffering. swollen belly.
the risk of death. for what?
Huh? A moment of pleasure?
I promise you...
it will be much more than just a moment.
The Law of Moses clearly states
the Day of Atonement
is a time to practice self-denial.
You're mad.
Well. when the sun sets tomorrow.
the day of self-denial will be over.
And we'll see if you still feel
the need to draw a blade on me then.
Mmm.
We shall see. husband.
Still sleeping under the stars?
Mychal.
Please. sit down.
Uh. I've made a decision about us.
If this is about earlier.
your sister was performing for the crowd
and I took no pleasure...
But the people did.
I can see how this ends.
Let's spare ourselves more pain.
You...
You will marry Mirab. and I...
-I will live with it.
-No. no.
I... I can... I cannot.
I won't. [stammers] I love you. Mychal.
Only you.
There's more to consider
than our own happiness.
Perhaps I was only meant
to help you face the giant.
-Perhaps that is God's purpose in this.
-What? No.
We are meant to be together. I know it.
Listen. we just need to keep fighting.
I am fighting.
I'm fighting for something else.
For what?
My family.
But you said yourself.
you blame your own father.
I'm angry with him. yes.
but he's still my father.
-And he's the anointed.
-Is he?
Do not speak against God.
Not to me and certainly not here.
-No. no. no. that's not what I meant.
-I love you. but I...
I will not choose you or anyone
over his will.
What if choosing me is God's will?
You keep saying that.
but have you even asked him?
-Constantly.
-Has he answered?
-Well. not yet. but...
-That is our answer.
If we were truly meant to be together.
this would be easier.
We wouldn't have to keep fighting against
the current or breaking my family apart.
David. my mother isn't even here.
I know. I know.
I fear...
I fear we are being selfish.
Mychal. please.
I've made my decision.
If you love me. you'll respect it.
This is because of David.
This is not his fault or yours.
but it will be your burden to bear.
So. instead of judging others as they do.
concern yourself with
the man God wants you to become.
Perhaps then.
you will be the one to redeem our family.
Abba!
Tobiah. Tobiah.
My king.
Thank you. Abner.
for bringing my most honored guest.
Tell me. Saul...
Are all your honored guests
brought forcibly
to your tent in the dead of night?
Hila...
I didn't bring you here
to threaten you. but to appeal.
We have much to discuss.
Please. sit.
I prefer to stand.
Where is Ahinoam?
Do you not always travel together?
The queen is not your concern.
I sincerely hope she isn't ill
or grappling with demons of the mind.
as you have been of late.
I assure you. Hila.
my mind has never been more clear.
And Samuel needs to know that.
Convince your husband. who has
clearly lost sight of God's purpose.
to make the right choice.
Tomorrow. Samuel must
reaffirm his support for me as king
in front of the gathered people of Israel.
You kept him bound as a prisoner.
Even that couldn't convince him
to do as you wish.
Of all places.
why would his mind be changed here?
If God has failed to tell him
the answer to that question.
then perhaps it will fall to me
to speak truth in his ear.
Do you not see?
When Samuel's words favor your house.
you accept them from God.
And when they do not. you dismiss them.
Either God speaks through my husband.
or he does not.
And if he does not.
then your anointing was never just.
So. you have lost either way.
Accept this and you will know peace.
No man lives forever
and Samuel's time will end
sooner than it should
if he continues to defy me.
And. Hila...
I would be terribly burdened
if anything happened to you as well.
Lord of Hosts. I ask you
on behalf of those still faithful.
Show your love and kindness
to your people. Israel...
for we have forsaken Adonai.
We have sinned against you...
and we have sinned against each other.
But you are long-suffering
and compassionate.
You are slow to anger
and your mercy is abounding.
May our sacrifice be acceptable
in your sight
as we enter this new year.
Free us from sin.
Forgive us our trespasses.
And. Lord. crown us
with your blessing and with your grace.
Ah...
And where have you been?
Just enjoying the night air.
Ah.
Good.
Thank you.
What?
-You should not be in here.
-Jonathan!
It's all right.
No. no. it's fine.
Leave us.
Come.
Samuel.
So. you have won a... a great victory.
It is well done.
Mmm. the victory was won by David.
Ah. Something troubles you.
He is the anointed one.
Chosen by God to replace my father.
Is he not?
-Hmm.
-So...
what does your heart tell you?
He has become my friend...
and I am teaching him the skills
he could use to destroy my father.
my family. myself.
It...
It threatens to corrupt the mind.
Listen to me.
No one. not even I. can know exactly
what Adonai intends
or how his will may manifest.
Do you truly believe that David
would ever harm you or your family?
I do not.
But... what is my purpose in this?
If he is to sit on the throne.
I am his greatest obstacle.
Then become his greatest ally.
Help David to become
the man God needs him to be.
Oh. Jonathan. Jonathan.
In the meantime. try to take some joy
in your own life.
Wash your hands.
Go on.
You owe me a great debt. son of Jesse.
I have saved you and your family
from a quick death.
You have done what?
I know who you're meant to be. David.
I. uh...
I know about the anointing.
Ah. so it is true.
Your eyes betray you.
Ah...
Do not worry.
I have put the name of another
in the king's ear.
The name of a man I will not miss.
They have died in your place. David.
So.
when the scepter returns to Judah
as prophesied and you sit on your throne.
my little musical warrior. huh.
remember who protected you.
The Lord has chose.
Upon this goat. I lay all our wrongdoings.
that it may bear them away
into the wilderness.
Let it carry our guilt far from us.
never to defile these people again.
Tekiah Gedolah.
Your false anointed one breathes no more.
God revealed him to me that I might
smite him from the face of the Earth.
Now show the people
I am God's chosen king.
Anoint me once again. here and now.
Only then will peace
reign throughout the land.
I do as God speaks.
You know this. Saul.
And what you are asking.
God has not spoken.
Hey.
I am with you. brother.
I fight with you and I mourn with you.
You have made the wrong choice.
Saul...
I do not fear you.
I do not serve you.
This altar is for priests.
not kings.
You'll get what you want.
I won't fight you anymore.
I will accept it.
-Mychal.
-But I cannot be beside you for this.
Don't expect me to forgive you. Mirab.
I can't.
Jonathan.
A wise man told me
to take joy in my life...
...and I am heeding his words.
I know what it is you want...
but this.
us. cannot be.
Do you not want it too?
I told you my brother died in battle.
but I didn't tell you the whole story.
His name was Isaac.
He died at the battle of Michmash.
The same battle that made you famous
as a hero of Israel.
They say you climbed a steep cliff
and launched an attack
on the Philistines
with only your armor-bearer at your side.
Two against an army.
My brother was one of the hundreds of men
inspired by your bravery
to join the fight...
and he died because of it.
No matter how hard I try.
and believe me. I have tried...
I cannot stop holding you
responsible for his death.
I save lives...
and you take them.
It's as simple as that.
Sara...
Are you all right?
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org